README.md, before:

ansible-role-rabbitmq
=========

Ansible role to install RabbitMQ from RabbitMQ repository.  
Available on [Ansible Galaxy](https://galaxy.ansible.com/rockandska/rabbitmq)

**Ansible Galaxy :**    
![Galaxy Score](https://img.shields.io/ansible/quality/38029.svg)  

**Travis Build :**  
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/rockandska/ansible-role-rabbitmq.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/rockandska/ansible-role-rabbitmq) 

Requirements on remote hosts
------------

#### All distro

- [ansible-role-erlang](https://galaxy.ansible.com/rockandska/erlang) applied
- socat
- logrotate
- python requests >= 1.0.0 ( if using bindings , exchanges, queues management provide by this role )
- For a cluster, hosts part of the cluster should be resolvable by their hostnames

#### Debian / Ubuntu

- apt-transport-https
- gpg-agent
- ca-certificates

#### CentOS / RedHat
- gnupg2

Role Variables
--------------

Defaults variables are inside `defaults/main.yml`
```yaml
---
###########
# Install #
###########
rabbitmq_series: 3.7
rabbitmq_series_rpm_version:
rabbitmq_series_deb_version:

rabbitmq_rpm_repo_url: https://dl.bintray.com/rabbitmq/rpm/rabbitmq-server
rabbitmq_rpm_gpg_url: https://dl.bintray.com/rabbitmq/Keys/rabbitmq-release-signing-key.asc
rabbitmq_rpm_repo_tpl: etc/yum.repos.d/rabbitmq.repo.j2
rabbitmq_rpm_disable_repo:
rabbitmq_rpm_enable_repo:

rabbitmq_deb_repo_url: https://dl.bintray.com/rabbitmq/debian
rabbitmq_deb_gpg_url: https://dl.bintray.com/rabbitmq/Keys/rabbitmq-release-signing-key.asc
rabbitmq_deb_repo_tpl: etc/apt/sources.list.d/rabbitmq.list.j2
rabbitmq_deb_pinning_tpl: etc/apt/preferences.d/rabbitmq.j2

#################
# Custom Config #
#################
rabbitmq_vars_files: []

rabbitmq_sysctl_tpl: etc/rabbitmq/sysctl.conf.j2
rabbitmq_sysctl_config: {}

rabbitmq_erlang_tpl: etc/rabbitmq/erlang.config.j2
rabbitmq_erlang_config:

rabbitmq_systemd_override_tpl: etc/systemd/system/rabbitmq-server.service.d/override.conf.j2
rabbitmq_systemd_override: {}

rabbitmq_custom_logrotate_tpl: etc/logrotate.d/rabbitmq-server.j2
rabbitmq_custom_logrotate:

###########
# Cluster #
###########
rabbitmq_is_master:
rabbitmq_slave_of:
rabbitmq_peer_discovery_classic: true
rabbitmq_cluster_node_type: disc

###########
# Plugins #
###########
rabbitmq_plugins_to_enable: []
rabbitmq_plugins_to_disable: []

#########
# Users #
#########
rabbitmq_users_to_create: []
rabbitmq_users_to_delete: []

############
# Api user #
############
rabbitmq_management_user:
rabbitmq_management_password:
rabbitmq_management_host:
rabbitmq_management_port:

##########
# Vhosts #
##########
rabbitmq_vhosts_to_create: []
rabbitmq_vhosts_to_delete: []

##########
# Queues #
##########
rabbitmq_queues_to_create: []
rabbitmq_queues_to_delete: []

############
# Exchange #
############
rabbitmq_exchanges_to_create: []
rabbitmq_exchanges_to_delete: []

############
# Bindings #
############
rabbitmq_bindings_to_create: []
rabbitmq_bindings_to_delete: []

############
# Policies #
############
rabbitmq_policies_to_create: []
rabbitmq_policies_to_delete: []

#########
# Debug #
#########
rabbitmq_hide_log: true
```

#### Details

- `rabbitmq_series`

  - should be a float (3.6,3.7 available at 02.01.2019)

- `rabbitmq_rpm_repo_url`

  - repository base url used for the yum template

- `rabbitmq_rpm_gpg_url`

  - gpg key to used for the yum template

- `rabbitmq_rpm_repo_tpl`

  - path to the yum repository template
  - if you want to use your own template
    - add your template next to your playbook in `templates`
    - use a different path than the default one
    - keep the repository name as `rabbitmq`

- `rabbitmq_series_rpm_version`

  - install a specific version of the `rabbitmq_series` for the Centos / Redhat systems
  - example:
    ```
    3.7.11-1.el7
    3.7.10-1.el7
    3.7.9-1.el7
    3.7.8-1.el7
    ```

- `rabbitmq_rpm_disable_repo`

  - used if you want to use the capability to disable some repositories when installing rabbitmq

  - default: ""

  - example:

    ```
    rabbitmq_rpm_disable_repo: "*"
    ```

- `rabbitmq_rpm_enable_repo`

  - used if you want to use the capability to enable only some repositories in case you use `rabbitmq_rpm_disable_repo: "*"` when installing rabbitmq

  - default: ""

  - example:

    ```
    rabbitmq_rpm_enable_repo: "rabbitmq"
    ```

- `rabbitmq_deb_repo_url`

  - repository base url used for the apt template

- `rabbitmq_deb_gpg_url`

  - gpg key to used for the apt template

- `rabbitmq_deb_repo_tpl`

  - path to the apt repository template
  - if you want to use your own template
    - add your template next to your playbook in `templates`
    - use a different path than the default one

- `rabbitmq_deb_pinning_tpl`

  - path to the apt pinning template
  - if you want to use your own template
    - add your template next to your playbook in a `templates` directory
    - use a different path than the default one

- `rabbitmq_series_deb_version`

  - install a specific version of the `rabbitmq_series` for Debian systems
  - example:
    ```
    3.7.11-1
    3.7.10-1
    3.7.9-1
    3.7.8-1
    ```

- `rabbitmq_vars_files`

  - list of vars files used to override defaults variables if needed
  - if using relative path, put those files next to your playbook in `vars` directory
  - example:
    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_vars_files:
      - settings.yml
    ```

- `rabbitmq_sysctl_tpl`

  - path to the rabbitmq sysctl config template
  - only apply to versions >= 3.7 ([See RabbitMQ docs](https://www.rabbitmq.com/configure.html#configuration-files))
  - if you want to use your own template
    - add your template next to your playbook in a `templates` directory
    - use a different path than the default one

- `rabbit_systctl_config`

  - a dict representing the custom rabbitmq systctl config to apply
  - each dict level will be concatenate by a .
  - put specials variables between double quotes (example: "true")
  - examples:
    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_sysctl_config:
      listeners:
        tcp:
          default: 5673
      tcp_listen_options:
        linger:
          on: "true"
     # Will result into rabbitmq.conf as:
     # tcp_listen_options.linger.on = true
     # listeners.tcp.default = 5673
    ```

- `rabbitmq_erlang_tpl`

  - path to the rabbitmq erlang config template
  - if you want to use your own template
    - add your template next to your playbook in a `templates` directory
    - use a different path than the default one

- `rabbitmq_erlang_config`
  - a multiline string with the rabbitmq config in erlang format to apply
  - will be used as rabbitmq.config for version <=3.6
  - will be used as advanced.conf for version >=3.7
  - **don't enclose the configuration with `[` and `].` , it is done inside the template**
  - example:
  ```yaml
  rabbitmq_erlang_config: |
    {rabbit, [
        {tcp_listeners, [{"127.0.0.1", 5672}]}
      ]
    }
  ```

- `rabbitmq_systemd_override_tpl`
  - path to the rabbitmq systemd override template
  - if you want to use your own template
    - add your template next to your playbook in a `templates` directory
    - use a different path than the default one

- `rabbitmq_systemd_override`
  - a dict representing the systemd override config
  - the first level is used for the ini section
  - the second level is used for the key / value 
  - example:
    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_systemd_override:
      Service:
        LimitNOFILE: 30000
    # Will result into the systemd override file as:
    # [Service]
    # LimitNOFILE=30000
    ```

- `rabbitmq_custom_logrotate_tpl`
  - path to the rabbitmq custom logrotate template
  - if you want to use your own template
    - add your template next to your playbook in a `templates` directory
    - use a different path than the default one

- `rabbitmq_custom_logrotate`
  - a multiline string with the logrotate options for rabbitmq logs

  - will erase the default config

  - **/!\ Be aware that if you replace the default logrotate config by a custom one, the configuration applied will persist even if you unset this variable**

  - example:
    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_custom_logrotate: |
      weekly
      missingok
      rotate 40
      compress
      notifempty
    # Will result into the logrotate config file as:
    # /var/log/rabbitmq/*.log {
    #   weekly
    #   missingok
    #   rotate 40
    #   compress
    #   notifempty
    # }
    ```

- `rabbitmq_is_master`

  - true / false

  - tag the host as a master

  - not mandatory in standalone install

  - only use to know on which node the api calls and commands will be done and where to get the cookie to propagate.

  - Example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_is_master: true
    ```

- `rabbitmq_slave_of`

  - inventory name of the master to join

  - tag the host as a slave

  - not mandatory in standalone install

  - **need to be a hostname/IP/alias who exist in the inventory**

  - Example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_slave_of: rabbitmq-master.internal
    ```

- `rabbitmq_peer_discovery_classic`

  - default: true
  - whether if cluster the nodes should be using classical discovery or not if you want to use another discovery type
  - the cluster configuration will be automatically generated and add to config file based on inventory name if using classic discovery

- `rabbitmq_cluster_node_type`

  - default: disc
  - whether the node is of type `disc` or `ram`

- `rabbitmq_users_to_create`

  - list of dict for users creation

  - refer to [ansible doc](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/rabbitmq_user_module.html) for mandatory options and version compatibility

  - Example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_users_to_create:
      - user: admin
        password: admin
        vhost: vhost_test
        configure_priv: .*
        read_priv: .*
        write_priv: .*
        tags: administrator
    ```

- `rabbitmq_users_to_delete`

  - list of users to delete

  - Example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_users_to_delete:
      - guest
    ```

- `rabbitmq_management_user`

  - User used by rabbitmq_management plugin
  - Used if one or more of those configurations are set:
    - `rabbitmq_exchanges_to_create`
    - `rabbitmq_exchanges_to_delete`
    - `rabbitmq_bindings_to_create`
    - `rabbitmq_bindings_to_delete`
  - **Don't forget to configure rabbitmq_management to only allow connection from localhost if needed**

- `rabbitmq_management_password`

  - password for the user used by rabbitmq_management plugin

  - Used if one or more of those configurations are set:
    - `rabbitmq_exchanges_to_create`
    - `rabbitmq_exchanges_to_delete`
    - `rabbitmq_bindings_to_create`
    - `rabbitmq_bindings_to_delete`
  - **Don't forget to configure rabbitmq_management to only allow connection from localhost if needed**

- `rabbitmq_management_host`

  - default: localhost
  - Used if one or more of those configurations are set:
    - `rabbitmq_exchanges_to_create`
    - `rabbitmq_exchanges_to_delete`
    - `rabbitmq_bindings_to_create`
    - `rabbitmq_bindings_to_delete`
  - **Don't forget to configure rabbitmq_management to only allow connection from localhost if needed**

- `rabbitmq_management_port`

  - default: 15672
  - Used if one or more of those configurations are set:
    - `rabbitmq_exchanges_to_create`
    - `rabbitmq_exchanges_to_delete`
    - `rabbitmq_bindings_to_create`
    - `rabbitmq_bindings_to_delete`
  - **Don't forget to configure rabbitmq_management to only allow connection from localhost if needed**

- `rabbitmq_plugins_to_enable`

  - list of plugins to enable

  - example:

    ```yml
    rabbitmq_plugins_to_enable:
      - rabbitmq_management
      - rabbitmq_shovel
    ```

- `rabbitmq_plugins_to_disable`

  - list of plugins to disable

  - example:

    ```yml
    rabbitmq_plugins_to_disable:
      - rabbitmq_shovel
    ```

- `rabbitmq_vhosts_to_create`

  - list of dict for vhosts creation

  - refer to [ansible doc](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/rabbitmq_vhost_module.html) for mandatory options and version compatibility

  - Example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_vhosts_to_create:
      - name: vhost_test
        tracing: yes
    ```

- `rabbitmq_vhosts_to_delete`

  - list of vhost to delete

  - Example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_vhosts_to_delete:
      - /
    ```

- `rabbitmq_queues_to_create`
  - list of queues to create
  - refer to [ansible doc](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/rabbitmq_queue_module.html) for mandatory options and version compatibility
  - example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_queues_to_create:
      - name: queue_test
        vhost: vhost_test
    ```

- `rabbitmq_queues_to_delete`
  - list of queues to delete

  - refer to [ansible doc](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/rabbitmq_queue_module.html) for mandatory options and version compatibility

  - example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_queues_to_delete:
      - name: queue_test
        vhost: vhost_test
    ```

- `rabbitmq_exchanges_to_create`

  - list of exchanges to create
  - refer to [ansible doc](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/rabbitmq_exchange_module.html) for mandatory options and version compatibility
  - example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_exchanges_to_create:
      - name: exchange_test
        vhost: vhost_test
    ```

- `rabbitmq_exchanges_to_delete`

  - list of exchanges to delete

  - refer to [ansible doc](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/rabbitmq_exchange_module.html) for mandatory options and version compatibility

  - example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_exchanges_to_delete:
      - name: exchange_test
        vhost: vhost_test
    ```

- `rabbitmq_bindings_to_create`

  - list of bindings to create

  - refer to [ansible doc](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/rabbitmq_binding_module.html) for mandatory options and version compatibility

  - example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_bindings_to_create:
      - name: exchange_test
        destination: queue_test
        destination_type: queue
        vhost: vhost_test
    ```

- `rabbitmq_bindings_to_delete`

  - list of bindings to delete

  - refer to [ansible doc](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/rabbitmq_binding_module.html) for mandatory options and version compatibility

  - example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_bindings_to_delete:
      - name: exchange_test
        destination: queue_test
        destination_type: queue
        vhost: vhost_test
    ```

- `rabbitmq_policies_to_create`

  - list of policies to create

  - refer to [ansible doc](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/rabbitmq_policy_module.html) for mandatory options and version compatibility

  - example:

    ```yaml
     rabbitmq_policies_to_create:
       - name: HA                                                       
         vhost: vhost_test
         pattern: .*
         tags:
           ha-mode: all                                                           
    ```

- `rabbitmq_policies_to_delete`

  - list of policies to delete

  - refer to [ansible doc](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/rabbitmq_policy_module.html) for mandatory options and version compatibility

  - example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_policies_to_delete:
      - name: HA
        vhost: vhost_test
    ```

- `rabbitmq_hide_log`

  - default: true
  - don't show the log for api calls to avoid leak of sensible informations
  - set to false for debug

Example Playbook
----------------

#### Standalone

```yaml
- hosts: rabbitmq
  roles:
    - rockandska.erlang
    - rockandska.rabbitmq
```

#### Cluster

Since it is require to have the master node started before getting the slaves joining, do the cluster deployment in two steps.

```yaml
- hosts: rabbitmq-master
  roles:
    - role: rockandska.erlang
    - role: rockandska.rabbitmq
      vars:
        rabbitmq_is_master: true

- hosts: rabbitmq-slave
  roles:
    - role: rockandska.erlang
    - role: rockandska.rabbitmq
      vars:
        rabbitmq_slave_of: rabbitmq-master
```



Local Testing
-------------

The preferred way of locally testing the role is to use Docker and [molecule](https://github.com/metacloud/molecule) (v2.x). You will have to install Docker on your system. See "Get started" for a Docker package suitable to for your system.
We are using tox to simplify process of testing on multiple ansible versions. To install tox execute:
```sh
$ sudo pip install tox
# or
$ pip install --user tox
```

To run tests on all ansible versions (WARNING: this can take some time)
```sh
$ tox
```
To run a custom molecule command on custom environment with only default test scenario:
```sh
$ tox -e py27-ansible25 -- molecule test -s default
```
For more information about molecule go to their [docs](http://molecule.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

If you would like to run tests on remote docker host just specify `DOCKER_HOST` variable before running tox tests.

License
-------

BSD

Commit message:

Update erlang role version for tests
- Add tests with ansible 2.8 and 2.9

README.md, after:

ansible-role-rabbitmq
=========

Ansible role to install RabbitMQ from RabbitMQ repository.  
Available on [Ansible Galaxy](https://galaxy.ansible.com/rockandska/rabbitmq)

**Ansible Galaxy :**    
![Galaxy Score](https://img.shields.io/ansible/quality/38029.svg)  

**Travis Build :**  
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/rockandska/ansible-role-rabbitmq.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/rockandska/ansible-role-rabbitmq) 

Requirements on remote hosts
------------

#### All distro

- [ansible-role-erlang](https://galaxy.ansible.com/rockandska/erlang) applied (**don't forget to use an erlang serie compatible with the rabbitmq version who will be installed. See [rabbitmq documentation](https://www.rabbitmq.com/which-erlang.html)**)
- socat
- logrotate
- python requests >= 1.0.0 ( if using bindings , exchanges, queues management provide by this role )
- For a cluster, hosts part of the cluster should be resolvable by their hostnames

#### Debian / Ubuntu

- apt-transport-https
- gpg-agent
- ca-certificates

#### CentOS / RedHat
- gnupg2

Role Variables
--------------

Defaults variables are inside `defaults/main.yml`
```yaml
---
###########
# Install #
###########
rabbitmq_series: 3.7
rabbitmq_series_rpm_version:
rabbitmq_series_deb_version:

rabbitmq_rpm_repo_url: https://dl.bintray.com/rabbitmq/rpm/rabbitmq-server
rabbitmq_rpm_gpg_url: https://dl.bintray.com/rabbitmq/Keys/rabbitmq-release-signing-key.asc
rabbitmq_rpm_repo_tpl: etc/yum.repos.d/rabbitmq.repo.j2
rabbitmq_rpm_disable_repo:
rabbitmq_rpm_enable_repo:

rabbitmq_deb_repo_url: https://dl.bintray.com/rabbitmq/debian
rabbitmq_deb_gpg_url: https://dl.bintray.com/rabbitmq/Keys/rabbitmq-release-signing-key.asc
rabbitmq_deb_repo_tpl: etc/apt/sources.list.d/rabbitmq.list.j2
rabbitmq_deb_pinning_tpl: etc/apt/preferences.d/rabbitmq.j2

#################
# Custom Config #
#################
rabbitmq_vars_files: []

rabbitmq_sysctl_tpl: etc/rabbitmq/sysctl.conf.j2
rabbitmq_sysctl_config: {}

rabbitmq_erlang_tpl: etc/rabbitmq/erlang.config.j2
rabbitmq_erlang_config:

rabbitmq_systemd_override_tpl: etc/systemd/system/rabbitmq-server.service.d/override.conf.j2
rabbitmq_systemd_override: {}

rabbitmq_custom_logrotate_tpl: etc/logrotate.d/rabbitmq-server.j2
rabbitmq_custom_logrotate:

###########
# Cluster #
###########
rabbitmq_is_master:
rabbitmq_slave_of:
rabbitmq_peer_discovery_classic: true
rabbitmq_cluster_node_type: disc

###########
# Plugins #
###########
rabbitmq_plugins_to_enable: []
rabbitmq_plugins_to_disable: []

#########
# Users #
#########
rabbitmq_users_to_create: []
rabbitmq_users_to_delete: []

############
# Api user #
############
rabbitmq_management_user:
rabbitmq_management_password:
rabbitmq_management_host:
rabbitmq_management_port:

##########
# Vhosts #
##########
rabbitmq_vhosts_to_create: []
rabbitmq_vhosts_to_delete: []

##########
# Queues #
##########
rabbitmq_queues_to_create: []
rabbitmq_queues_to_delete: []

############
# Exchange #
############
rabbitmq_exchanges_to_create: []
rabbitmq_exchanges_to_delete: []

############
# Bindings #
############
rabbitmq_bindings_to_create: []
rabbitmq_bindings_to_delete: []

############
# Policies #
############
rabbitmq_policies_to_create: []
rabbitmq_policies_to_delete: []

#########
# Debug #
#########
rabbitmq_hide_log: true
```

#### Details

- `rabbitmq_series`

  - should be a float (3.6,3.7 available at 02.01.2019)

- `rabbitmq_rpm_repo_url`

  - repository base url used for the yum template

- `rabbitmq_rpm_gpg_url`

  - gpg key to used for the yum template

- `rabbitmq_rpm_repo_tpl`

  - path to the yum repository template
  - if you want to use your own template
    - add your template next to your playbook in `templates`
    - use a different path than the default one
    - keep the repository name as `rabbitmq`

- `rabbitmq_series_rpm_version`

  - install a specific version of the `rabbitmq_series` for the Centos / Redhat systems
  - example:
    ```
    3.7.11-1.el7
    3.7.10-1.el7
    3.7.9-1.el7
    3.7.8-1.el7
    ```

- `rabbitmq_rpm_disable_repo`

  - used if you want to use the capability to disable some repositories when installing rabbitmq

  - default: ""

  - example:

    ```
    rabbitmq_rpm_disable_repo: "*"
    ```

- `rabbitmq_rpm_enable_repo`

  - used if you want to use the capability to enable only some repositories in case you use `rabbitmq_rpm_disable_repo: "*"` when installing rabbitmq

  - default: ""

  - example:

    ```
    rabbitmq_rpm_enable_repo: "rabbitmq"
    ```

- `rabbitmq_deb_repo_url`

  - repository base url used for the apt template

- `rabbitmq_deb_gpg_url`

  - gpg key to used for the apt template

- `rabbitmq_deb_repo_tpl`

  - path to the apt repository template
  - if you want to use your own template
    - add your template next to your playbook in `templates`
    - use a different path than the default one

- `rabbitmq_deb_pinning_tpl`

  - path to the apt pinning template
  - if you want to use your own template
    - add your template next to your playbook in a `templates` directory
    - use a different path than the default one

- `rabbitmq_series_deb_version`

  - install a specific version of the `rabbitmq_series` for Debian systems
  - example:
    ```
    3.7.11-1
    3.7.10-1
    3.7.9-1
    3.7.8-1
    ```

- `rabbitmq_vars_files`

  - list of vars files used to override defaults variables if needed
  - if using relative path, put those files next to your playbook in `vars` directory
  - example:
    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_vars_files:
      - settings.yml
    ```

- `rabbitmq_sysctl_tpl`

  - path to the rabbitmq sysctl config template
  - only apply to versions >= 3.7 ([See RabbitMQ docs](https://www.rabbitmq.com/configure.html#configuration-files))
  - if you want to use your own template
    - add your template next to your playbook in a `templates` directory
    - use a different path than the default one

- `rabbit_systctl_config`

  - a dict representing the custom rabbitmq systctl config to apply
  - each dict level will be concatenate by a .
  - put specials variables between double quotes (example: "true")
  - examples:
    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_sysctl_config:
      listeners:
        tcp:
          default: 5673
      tcp_listen_options:
        linger:
          on: "true"
     # Will result into rabbitmq.conf as:
     # tcp_listen_options.linger.on = true
     # listeners.tcp.default = 5673
    ```

- `rabbitmq_erlang_tpl`

  - path to the rabbitmq erlang config template
  - if you want to use your own template
    - add your template next to your playbook in a `templates` directory
    - use a different path than the default one

- `rabbitmq_erlang_config`
  - a multiline string with the rabbitmq config in erlang format to apply
  - will be used as rabbitmq.config for version <=3.6
  - will be used as advanced.conf for version >=3.7
  - **don't enclose the configuration with `[` and `].` , it is done inside the template**
  - example:
  ```yaml
  rabbitmq_erlang_config: |
    {rabbit, [
        {tcp_listeners, [{"127.0.0.1", 5672}]}
      ]
    }
  ```

- `rabbitmq_systemd_override_tpl`
  - path to the rabbitmq systemd override template
  - if you want to use your own template
    - add your template next to your playbook in a `templates` directory
    - use a different path than the default one

- `rabbitmq_systemd_override`
  - a dict representing the systemd override config
  - the first level is used for the ini section
  - the second level is used for the key / value 
  - example:
    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_systemd_override:
      Service:
        LimitNOFILE: 30000
    # Will result into the systemd override file as:
    # [Service]
    # LimitNOFILE=30000
    ```

- `rabbitmq_custom_logrotate_tpl`
  - path to the rabbitmq custom logrotate template
  - if you want to use your own template
    - add your template next to your playbook in a `templates` directory
    - use a different path than the default one

- `rabbitmq_custom_logrotate`
  - a multiline string with the logrotate options for rabbitmq logs

  - will erase the default config

  - **/!\ Be aware that if you replace the default logrotate config by a custom one, the configuration applied will persist even if you unset this variable**

  - example:
    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_custom_logrotate: |
      weekly
      missingok
      rotate 40
      compress
      notifempty
    # Will result into the logrotate config file as:
    # /var/log/rabbitmq/*.log {
    #   weekly
    #   missingok
    #   rotate 40
    #   compress
    #   notifempty
    # }
    ```

- `rabbitmq_is_master`

  - true / false

  - tag the host as a master

  - not mandatory in standalone install

  - only use to know on which node the api calls and commands will be done and where to get the cookie to propagate.

  - Example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_is_master: true
    ```

- `rabbitmq_slave_of`

  - inventory name of the master to join

  - tag the host as a slave

  - not mandatory in standalone install

  - **need to be a hostname/IP/alias who exist in the inventory**

  - Example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_slave_of: rabbitmq-master.internal
    ```

- `rabbitmq_peer_discovery_classic`

  - default: true
  - whether if cluster the nodes should be using classical discovery or not if you want to use another discovery type
  - the cluster configuration will be automatically generated and add to config file based on inventory name if using classic discovery

- `rabbitmq_cluster_node_type`

  - default: disc
  - whether the node is of type `disc` or `ram`

- `rabbitmq_users_to_create`

  - list of dict for users creation

  - refer to [ansible doc](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/rabbitmq_user_module.html) for mandatory options and version compatibility

  - Example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_users_to_create:
      - user: admin
        password: admin
        vhost: vhost_test
        configure_priv: .*
        read_priv: .*
        write_priv: .*
        tags: administrator
    ```

- `rabbitmq_users_to_delete`

  - list of users to delete

  - Example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_users_to_delete:
      - guest
    ```

- `rabbitmq_management_user`

  - User used by rabbitmq_management plugin
  - Used if one or more of those configurations are set:
    - `rabbitmq_exchanges_to_create`
    - `rabbitmq_exchanges_to_delete`
    - `rabbitmq_bindings_to_create`
    - `rabbitmq_bindings_to_delete`
  - **Don't forget to configure rabbitmq_management to only allow connection from localhost if needed**

- `rabbitmq_management_password`

  - password for the user used by rabbitmq_management plugin

  - Used if one or more of those configurations are set:
    - `rabbitmq_exchanges_to_create`
    - `rabbitmq_exchanges_to_delete`
    - `rabbitmq_bindings_to_create`
    - `rabbitmq_bindings_to_delete`
  - **Don't forget to configure rabbitmq_management to only allow connection from localhost if needed**

- `rabbitmq_management_host`

  - default: localhost
  - Used if one or more of those configurations are set:
    - `rabbitmq_exchanges_to_create`
    - `rabbitmq_exchanges_to_delete`
    - `rabbitmq_bindings_to_create`
    - `rabbitmq_bindings_to_delete`
  - **Don't forget to configure rabbitmq_management to only allow connection from localhost if needed**

- `rabbitmq_management_port`

  - default: 15672
  - Used if one or more of those configurations are set:
    - `rabbitmq_exchanges_to_create`
    - `rabbitmq_exchanges_to_delete`
    - `rabbitmq_bindings_to_create`
    - `rabbitmq_bindings_to_delete`
  - **Don't forget to configure rabbitmq_management to only allow connection from localhost if needed**

- `rabbitmq_plugins_to_enable`

  - list of plugins to enable

  - example:

    ```yml
    rabbitmq_plugins_to_enable:
      - rabbitmq_management
      - rabbitmq_shovel
    ```

- `rabbitmq_plugins_to_disable`

  - list of plugins to disable

  - example:

    ```yml
    rabbitmq_plugins_to_disable:
      - rabbitmq_shovel
    ```

- `rabbitmq_vhosts_to_create`

  - list of dict for vhosts creation

  - refer to [ansible doc](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/rabbitmq_vhost_module.html) for mandatory options and version compatibility

  - Example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_vhosts_to_create:
      - name: vhost_test
        tracing: yes
    ```

- `rabbitmq_vhosts_to_delete`

  - list of vhost to delete

  - Example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_vhosts_to_delete:
      - /
    ```

- `rabbitmq_queues_to_create`
  - list of queues to create
  - refer to [ansible doc](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/rabbitmq_queue_module.html) for mandatory options and version compatibility
  - example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_queues_to_create:
      - name: queue_test
        vhost: vhost_test
    ```

- `rabbitmq_queues_to_delete`
  - list of queues to delete

  - refer to [ansible doc](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/rabbitmq_queue_module.html) for mandatory options and version compatibility

  - example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_queues_to_delete:
      - name: queue_test
        vhost: vhost_test
    ```

- `rabbitmq_exchanges_to_create`

  - list of exchanges to create
  - refer to [ansible doc](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/rabbitmq_exchange_module.html) for mandatory options and version compatibility
  - example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_exchanges_to_create:
      - name: exchange_test
        vhost: vhost_test
    ```

- `rabbitmq_exchanges_to_delete`

  - list of exchanges to delete

  - refer to [ansible doc](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/rabbitmq_exchange_module.html) for mandatory options and version compatibility

  - example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_exchanges_to_delete:
      - name: exchange_test
        vhost: vhost_test
    ```

- `rabbitmq_bindings_to_create`

  - list of bindings to create

  - refer to [ansible doc](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/rabbitmq_binding_module.html) for mandatory options and version compatibility

  - example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_bindings_to_create:
      - name: exchange_test
        destination: queue_test
        destination_type: queue
        vhost: vhost_test
    ```

- `rabbitmq_bindings_to_delete`

  - list of bindings to delete

  - refer to [ansible doc](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/rabbitmq_binding_module.html) for mandatory options and version compatibility

  - example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_bindings_to_delete:
      - name: exchange_test
        destination: queue_test
        destination_type: queue
        vhost: vhost_test
    ```

- `rabbitmq_policies_to_create`

  - list of policies to create

  - refer to [ansible doc](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/rabbitmq_policy_module.html) for mandatory options and version compatibility

  - example:

    ```yaml
     rabbitmq_policies_to_create:
       - name: HA                                                       
         vhost: vhost_test
         pattern: .*
         tags:
           ha-mode: all                                                           
    ```

- `rabbitmq_policies_to_delete`

  - list of policies to delete

  - refer to [ansible doc](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/rabbitmq_policy_module.html) for mandatory options and version compatibility

  - example:

    ```yaml
    rabbitmq_policies_to_delete:
      - name: HA
        vhost: vhost_test
    ```

- `rabbitmq_hide_log`

  - default: true
  - don't show the log for api calls to avoid leak of sensible informations
  - set to false for debug

Example Playbook
----------------

#### Standalone

```yaml
- hosts: rabbitmq
  roles:
    - rockandska.erlang
    - rockandska.rabbitmq
```

#### Cluster

Since it is require to have the master node started before getting the slaves joining, do the cluster deployment in two steps.

```yaml
- hosts: rabbitmq-master
  roles:
    - role: rockandska.erlang
    - role: rockandska.rabbitmq
      vars:
        rabbitmq_is_master: true

- hosts: rabbitmq-slave
  roles:
    - role: rockandska.erlang
    - role: rockandska.rabbitmq
      vars:
        rabbitmq_slave_of: rabbitmq-master
```



Local Testing
-------------

The preferred way of locally testing the role is to use Docker and [molecule](https://github.com/metacloud/molecule) (v2.x). You will have to install Docker on your system. See "Get started" for a Docker package suitable to for your system.
We are using tox to simplify process of testing on multiple ansible versions. To install tox execute:
```sh
$ sudo pip install tox
# or
$ pip install --user tox
```

To run tests on all ansible versions (WARNING: this can take some time)
```sh
$ tox
```
To run a custom molecule command on custom environment with only default test scenario:
```sh
$ tox -e py27-ansible25 -- molecule test -s default
```
For more information about molecule go to their [docs](http://molecule.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

If you would like to run tests on remote docker host just specify `DOCKER_HOST` variable before running tox tests.

License
-------

BSD
